# Self_Assessment
# Individual Self-Assessment
My role in the final project was team organizer. I began looking for ideas in late November. I arrived at the idea of analyzing historical data from the Summer and Winter Olympics and trying to predict medal outcomes by looking at a nations GDP, Population, host status and number of athletes. I then pitched this idea to members of the class and recruited them to the group. I then compiled the data from Kaggle and Wikipedia.  Once the data was compiled the group began the cleaning process together. After this process was done the roles began to differentiate further. Ben Thome oversaw the ReadMe and SQL database construction. Cherelle Hinton oversaw the development of HTML and Tableau visualization. Ben Bratrud and I oversaw the development of linear regression and machine learning models. Throughout the process each of us was in contact over Slack as well as through zoom meetings. Though each of us had designated roles, we were in constant consultation with each other as the models were developed. The greatest challenge was the management of git. We struggled greatly with frequent merge conflicts and worked together with instructional staff to resolve the discrepancies.
 
# Team Assessment
Our communication protocol was driven by a private Slack group. We could post meeting times and any updates and issues in the chat and resolve them. We also had frequent zoom meetings to share screens and work through complex code. The biggest challenge was not having a designated group leader from the outset. Having this could have established better order.
Our team strength was our positivity and lack of egos. Everyone came in each day willing to learn from each other. New students to the boot camp would be advised to check egos at the door and approach the problems that develop with an open mind.
 
# Summary
Olympic Medal Analysis: The project objective was to determine if medal outcomes for a nation were predictable by looking at a countries GDP per Capita, Population, athlete count and host nation status. Data sets were obtained from Kaggle and Wikipedia. They were cleaned in Excel and merged in SQL. They were then exported to Jupyter Notebook and linear regressions and machine learning was conducted to develop predictions of medals won. We were able to predict outcomes within 1.98 medals for the Summer Olympics and 2.88 medals for the Winter Olympics.
